# HydridSelfIndex
This code is a 64-bits and extended version of the original Hybrid Index (HI) [1], converting the HI in a compressed full-text index for any types of text (not only repetitive datasets).

The original HI is a compressed text index designed for repetitive texts to locate occurrences of patterns for a maximum pattern length M. This code is an improved version that extends the original functionalities to locate patterns of any length and to reproduce any text segment (the typical extract/display operation). It continues receiving M, as input parameter, as a threshold on pattern length for solving queries for pattern lengths at most M in a similar way as the original index, which is our optimal query time case; when m>M we offer a new method to locate occurrences, which is asymptotically is not optimal, giving a trade-off between locate-time and space usage.

Authors: H. Ferrada, D. Kempa and S. J. Puglisi. 
{{hferrada,dkempa,puglisi}@cs.helsinki.fi}

Requisites
=============
1.- The sdsl library, which is is available from: https://github.com/simongog/sdsl-lite <br />
2.- The RMQ library, which is available from: https://github.com/hferrada/rmq <br />

MAKE 
======
1.- Install the libraries sdsl and rmq. Nota the in our experiments we set the rmq blok size in 64, the faster configuration of the rmq library. To do that you have set RMQRMM64::BLK = RMQRMM64::SS = 64 in the header file oncludes/RMQRMM64.h before to compile it<br />
2.- Edit the Makefile writing the variables SDSL_DIR and RMQ_DIR with the path where you have installed the libraries. <br />
3.- To make the library just execute the command 'make', this will create the file: 'hsi.a'. <br />

Compiling & Linking
=========================
To use the index you must compile your program linking 'hsi.a' and include the header "HybridSelfIndex.h". In the Makefile file there are two tag in order to create/load the index from the examples .cpp files build_hsi.cpp and load_hsi.cpp included here.

Parameters of Construction
==========================
These are also well detailed in the code. The trade-off of our HybridSelfIndex depends on two main parameters: S_SA, which is the sampling-size of the internal FMI and the value for M. A larger M value you will obtain a larger filtered text (i.e., a bigger FMI), but also you will reduce the size of the internal structures to report secondary occurrences (given the LZ77 parser of the text). On the other hand an small M value speeds up locate queries for short patterns (m<=M) and a larger M value speeds up queries for longer patterns and also reduce the time to report secondary occurrences.<br />
In order to index an input text, you first have to compute its LZ77 parser with the code that we have included in the folder “computelz77_hi”. The file generated by the binary “computelz77_hi/computelz77_hi” is the new input file for our constructor in the clase “HybridSelfIndex”. The “HybridSelfIndex” receives only three parameter: <br />
-. Parser File. It is the LZ77 parser computed by computelz77_hi/computelz77_hi. <br />
-. M. The optimal pattern length M value for our index.<br />
-. Prefix of the Save Path. The prefix path where to save/load the files generated by the code.<br />

References
===========
Please, if you want to include this tool as part of a work or experiments, in your references include the paper [2] .<br />
[1]. H. Ferrada, T. Gagie, T. Hirvola, and S. J. Puglisi. Hybrid indexes for repetitive datasets. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A, 327, 2014. Aricle no. 2016. <br />
[2]. H. Ferrada, D. Kempa and S. J. Puglisi. Hybrid indexing Revisited. To appear in Algorithm Engineering and Experiments (ALENEX18). 2018.
